We succeeded to
do what we were training for,
I think, for years,
but that's not exactly
what we were training for.
I mean, for years,
the fact that
we have those squads in every kibbutz
is to prevent like a small
to to intercept a small group
of terrorists
may be trying to do something
very pinpointed,
not a full military assault
with numbers, with dozens of terrorists
coming to us, with anti-tank
anti-tank missiles.
Altogether more than 30 destination
is that around 35
terrorists were
participating in participating
in the three assaults on the kibbutz.
It all began, of course, around
630 in the morning.
You were sleeping?
Yeah.
You and your wife and me.
And my wife.
In the second floor,
we start with the missile.
And the missile. And
I said to my wife, I
think I hear a missile.
She said, Yeah, I hear this also.
So we on to the to the first floor,
and then we got the missile
on the second floor to hit your house.
Yeah.
Come from the roof and blow everything.
And then.
Then the smoke
start to go
down, open the bomb shelter,
run to the second floor with
two to see if there is fire or something
like this.
And I see that there is no fire.
Suddenly,
I thought we were shooting all around.
I said to Avi, It's not normal.
Do you have radios?
Are you texting?
How are you figuring where each other?
We have radios, but
quite in the beginning,
some of them were malfunctioning already.
The
two just
exactly.
Everybody was.
And what happened?
Because it was
it wasn't actually even going through.
So afterwards, it's ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.
So you were really operating alone.
Each of you alone in a cell
basically is basically is at some points.
I had the connection at some points,
although most of
they didn't have any connection.
The radios work.
I didn't know they had a battle.
They were in the other side
of the kibbutz.
I couldn't hear them
because there were three points.
I couldn't hear them.
I had no idea
they were in a battle until noon, maybe
because I wasn't there.
Ghaith But you were at the gate.
They tried to come in the vehicle gate,
and I know and very
we saw
all the burnt out cars
they used to block.
You were able to stop that,
but they burst
through the pedestrian gate.
We have
we have footage of some of this
from the security cameras.
They were actually they were actually
you know,
they were actually shooting
anti-tank missiles on the gate
so that there's
an actual carnage
going on outside the gate.
People are trying to rush
in from the party, people
that were just driving there,
right there,
trying to come in for safety, come in
the gate gates close.
They cannot see the terrorists
and they just go outside
and run through the gate.
And they're being shot
at from short distance,
from down
the terrace of the gate
or trying to come in.
These people are rushing.
So they basically just yeah,
they're it's like picking them off
as they run in
there are actually taking cover
around the gate
from the outside
and finding them
and firing at those civilians.
That's running through the gate
and stabbing them
after they were shot down
to make sure they're dead
and they are engaging.
There is a small army
unit, this bomb shelter outside the gate.
Some of the party
members were hiding there.
So you can see
a group of their is going
and doing their massacre there
and they throw the hand grenades
into the shelter. Yes.
You can see in the movie
the security moves.
You can see the hand of the
they always drove
through hand grenades inside.
So I went down the solo
and starting
moving towards towards the main gate,
but not in a straight line.
I mean, I went through the houses.
I got to parking lot number two
that it's like on the
and there is a hill, a small hill over
watching it but from outside
and there were two, three guys
wearing black.
Looking at the road
I wasn't sure
if this is real people
or maybe I don't know what
And the moment they turned around
they saw AK 47.
So that's how you get of 16?
Yes, all of it is.
We don't use a 47.
So when you you know,
that's not immediate signal
that that that's not us.
I show that this group,
one of them got hit.
The other one,
the other two is scattered.
Do you have any idea how many
obviously, you have M16.
Do you have magazines? But
just a sense of this went on for hours.
How many bullets did you even shoot?
I mean, given
even idea of what you know, you know,
we should have, you know, the hundreds.
I want 240 bullets.
I knew that
I have only a six magazines
and I counted every bullet.
I knew that A, I cannot shoot like
I have a back up or something like that.
So I've been shooting every
every bullet has its only target.
I didn't try just to make them lie.
Right.
And you had to shoot.
You would shoot to kill.
I had to shoot to kill.
So I know you all know you've seen these.
This this is what was found on them.
I mean, at least on somebody, right?
This is their plans.
I mean, of what they were going to do.
I just
was reading through it.
I mean, it's dated October 2022.
They were
I mean,
if that they were planning
for a whole year.
The details in here.
Ellie,
I want to ask you about
one specific thing.
I mean, they knew everything about your
except our names,
but they put their phone numbers in here.
They put,
you know, the task boots,
Mafiosi raid, Plan B 14.
I mean, it's military grade specified.
God is great.
The Badr
Brigades, they label it all
but it but at the top they
they have, you know,
the cameras that are going to be visible.
Who is going to come to help you.
They knew the tank brigade.
But it's this part
I wanted to ask you all about.
This was exactly what they planned
to do inside the kibbutz,
the duty of
where they were supposed to go,
what street numbers, everything.
They know where the generator is.
It is an adjoining area.
And did they
did you now that you see this
and you saw them,
were they trying to execute this plan?
Exactly. Exactly.
Their plan was actually to engage
the security group
to open the main gates
to allow vehicles in
to sabotage
the main power and the generator
and to make as much casualties for
for from
from the security team
and to allow the second wave to go in.
And and the fact that they they know
the exact street
where to go to,
where the generator is and stated it.
I mean, it's street
by street, street by street.
That's exactly where they were executing.
Exactly.
They they came to the exact points
where the gates are.
For instance,
the point beside my house is
the gate is the sound. Okay.
It's a small gate disclosed
in the Hayden gates In the plan,
I actually saw a page
which I saw with the
symbols there
is actually arrows, arrows gate
like when you sit here now
and you think about it, that they they
they didn't just plan and train.
I mean this is
I mean this is a military
I mean this is it said
how do you even react to that?
This took its dates October 20, 22.
It's terrifying because
it is a military plan that
they combattants
the terrorists trained on.
It was quite clear
they knew exactly what they are doing.
They were disciplined.
This is a military great planning
to make very terrifying,
very great information.
Learn great.
You need inside information.
A lot of information.
It's not only Google Earth, what we know.
We know that
the many people from Gaza,
also from the West Bank,
come to the kibbutz to work
and to be in the house.
Dozens were inside, inside
schools, everything.
So there are all these plans,
a very specific, very information
from inside
someone that come to the kibbutz
every day.
We avoid talking about it, make locations
in the and give information to the
I mean
the faction advances from Street 49,
then Street 50,
then the Junction Club,
all Marvel Cinemas gate.
This is I mean,
they gave them
they gave them a rose inside the kibbutz.
You cannot see it from outside.
You cannot see it. Right.
So they
they would have had to have
someone had it.
Is that doesn't
really solve a civil
level of the property,
but don't give them a film of it.
We even right now, I don't know. What do
I not know what I can tell?
I cannot tell each and every.
But they did it
and they do it and they do.
And so we
we tend to think like an army does.
It is if we share some
information from inside the kibbutz.
But you saw outside your gates
what happened.
So the world understands.
Can you
can you just talk about
what happened, what you saw?
I mean, just,
you know, massacre in in in every sense
of the word massacre, Uh,
bloodthirsty.
It's not just.
Okay, Target killing is down.
Continue.
No, no, they they butchered the.
It was
a barbaric in every sense.
There's no need for 550 rounds of the guy
that's already dead on the floor.
Okay? There's no need for it.
I can tell you that. That one of the most
terrible, I think
few minutes in this day
was actually when we went
out of the kibbutz men.
David, families.
We went up to the kibbutz
at about three, three in the morning,
and there was no electricity
also on the road,
meaning was a complete darkness.
And we went outside the gate of our house
the minute they told us to drive
very fast, only to the north,
and we were driving like crazy and
from the gates
we told immediately
the children,
You are lying down on the floor.
Don't look out of the windows
in front of the gate.
There were burnt cars that
I've you can imagine in sheer darkness.
We were driving on the road,
which is the driving way through our
to our home.
I mean, like every day
was I was riding like that
between dead bodies.